<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The School</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Day was breaking above the white buildings of the Negro school and throwing long, low lines of gold in at Miss Sarah Smith‚Äôs front window. She lay in the stupor of her last morning nap, after a night of harrowing worry. Then, even as she partially awoke, she lay still with closed eyes, feeling the shadow of some great burden, yet daring not to rouse herself and recall its exact form; slowly again she drifted toward unconsciousness.</p>
			<p>‚Äú<i>Bang! bang! bang!</i>‚Äù hard knuckles were beating upon the door below.</p>
			<p>She heard drowsily, and dreamed that it was the nailing up of all her doors; but she did not care much, and but feebly warded the blows away, for she was very tired.</p>
			<p>‚Äú<i>Bang! bang! bang!</i>‚Äù persisted the hard knuckles.</p>
			<p>She started up, and her eye fell upon a letter lying on her bureau. Back she sank with a sigh, and lay staring at the ceiling‚ÅÝ‚Äîa gaunt, flat, sad-eyed creature, with wisps of gray hair half-covering her baldness, and a face furrowed with care and gathering years.</p>
			<p>It was thirty years ago this day, she recalled, since she first came to this broad land of shade and shine in Alabama to teach black folks.</p>
			<p>It had been a hard beginning with suspicion and squalor around; with poverty within and without the first white walls of the new school home. Yet somehow the struggle then with all its helplessness and disappointment had not seemed so bitter as today: then failure meant but little, now it seemed to mean everything; then it meant disappointment to a score of ragged urchins, now it meant two hundred boys and girls, the spirits of a thousand gone before and the hopes of thousands to come. In her imagination the significance of these half dozen gleaming buildings perched aloft seemed portentous‚ÅÝ‚Äîbig with the destiny not simply of a county and a State, but of a race‚ÅÝ‚Äîa nation‚ÅÝ‚Äîa world. It was God‚Äôs own cause, and yet‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
			<p>‚Äú<i>Bang! bang! bang!</i>‚Äù again went the hard knuckles down there at the front.</p>
			<p>Miss Smith slowly arose, shivering a bit and wondering who could possibly be rapping at that time in the morning. She sniffed the chilling air and was sure she caught some lingering perfume from Mrs.¬ÝVanderpool‚Äôs gown. She had brought this rich and rare-apparelled lady up here yesterday, because it was more private, and here she had poured forth her needs. She had talked long and in deadly earnest. She had not spoken of the endowment for which she had hoped so desperately during a quarter of a century‚ÅÝ‚Äîno, only for the five thousand dollars to buy the long needed new land. It was so little‚ÅÝ‚Äîso little beside what this woman squandered‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
			<p>The insistent knocking was repeated louder than before.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSakes alive,‚Äù cried Miss Smith, throwing a shawl about her and leaning out the window. ‚ÄúWho is it, and what do you want?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPlease, ma‚Äôam. I‚Äôve come to school,‚Äù answered a tall black boy with a bundle.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, why don‚Äôt you go to the office?‚Äù Then she saw his face and hesitated. She felt again the old motherly instinct to be the first to welcome the new pupil; a luxury which, in later years, the endless push of details had denied her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWait!‚Äù she cried shortly, and began to dress.</p>
			<p>A new boy, she mused. Yes, every day they straggled in; every day came the call for more, more‚ÅÝ‚Äîthis great, growing thirst to know‚ÅÝ‚Äîto do‚ÅÝ‚Äîto be. And yet that woman had sat right here, aloof, imperturbable, listening only courteously. When Miss Smith finished, she had paused and, flicking her glove‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy dear Miss Smith,‚Äù she said softly, with a tone that just escaped a drawl‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚ÄúMy dear Miss Smith, your work is interesting and your faith‚ÅÝ‚Äîmarvellous; but, frankly, I cannot make myself believe in it. You are trying to treat these funny little monkeys just as you would your own children‚ÅÝ‚Äîor even mine. It‚Äôs quite heroic, of course, but it‚Äôs sheer madness, and I do not feel I ought to encourage it. I would not mind a thousand or so to train a good cook for the Cresswells, or a clean and faithful maid for myself‚ÅÝ‚Äîfor Helene has faults‚ÅÝ‚Äîor indeed deft and tractable laboring-folk for any one; but I‚Äôm quite through trying to turn natural servants into masters of me and mine. I‚ÅÝ‚Äîhope I‚Äôm not too blunt; I hope I make myself clear. You know, statistics show‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDrat statistics!‚Äù Miss Smith had flashed impatiently. ‚ÄúThese are folks.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Mrs.¬ÝVanderpool smiled indulgently. ‚ÄúTo be sure,‚Äù she murmured, ‚Äúbut what sort of folks?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGod‚Äôs sort.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, well‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>But Miss Smith had the bit in her teeth and could not have stopped. She was paying high for the privilege of talking, but it had to be said.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGod‚Äôs sort, Mrs.¬ÝVanderpool‚ÅÝ‚Äînot the sort that think of the world as arranged for their exclusive benefit and comfort.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, I do want to count‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>Miss Smith bent forward‚ÅÝ‚Äînot a beautiful pose, but earnest.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI want you to count, and I want to count, too; but I don‚Äôt want us to be the only ones that count. I want to live in a world where every soul counts‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhite, black, and yellow‚ÅÝ‚Äîall. <i>That‚Äôs</i> what I‚Äôm teaching these children here‚ÅÝ‚Äîto count, and not to be like dumb, driven cattle. If you don‚Äôt believe in this, of course you cannot help us.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYour spirit is admirable, Miss Smith,‚Äù she had said very softly; ‚ÄúI only wish I could feel as you do. Good-afternoon,‚Äù and she had rustled gently down the narrow stairs, leaving an all but imperceptible suggestion of perfume. Miss Smith could smell it yet as she went down this morning.</p>
			<p>The breakfast bell jangled. ‚ÄúFive thousand dollars,‚Äù she kept repeating to herself, greeting the teachers absently‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúfive thousand dollars.‚Äù And then on the porch she was suddenly aware of the awaiting boy. She eyed him critically: black, fifteen, country-bred, strong, clear-eyed.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell?‚Äù she asked in that brusque manner wherewith her natural timidity was wont to mask her kindness. ‚ÄúWell, sir?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve come to school.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHumph‚ÅÝ‚Äîwe can‚Äôt teach boys for nothing.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The boy straightened. ‚ÄúI can pay my way,‚Äù he returned.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou mean you can pay what we ask?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, yes. Ain‚Äôt that all?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo. The rest is gathered from the crumbs of Dives‚Äô table.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Then he saw the twinkle in her eyes. She laid her hand gently upon his shoulder.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf you don‚Äôt hurry you‚Äôll be late to breakfast,‚Äù she said with an air of confidence. ‚ÄúSee those boys over there? Follow them, and at noon come to the office‚ÅÝ‚Äîwait! What‚Äôs your name?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBlessed Alwyn,‚Äù he answered, and the passing teachers smiled.</p>
			<hr/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
